The Wish-Fulfilling Jewel
A Daily Sādhana of Noble Avalokiteśvara, the Great Compassionate One
revealed by Rigdzin Gödem

I bow before Noble Avalokiteśvara.

hrih, rangnyi kechik drenpé tingdzin gyi
Hrīḥ. Through a single moment of meditative recollection,
tongpé ngang lé pema dawé den
I appear out of emptiness, upon a seat of lotus and moon cushion,
pekar hrih tsen yongsu gyurpa lé
As a white lotus marked with a syllable Hrīḥ,
tukjé ngadak pakchok chenrezik
Which transforms into Noble Avalokiteśvara, lord of compassion.
shyal chik chak shyi kudok kar la tser
Brilliant white in colour with one face and four hands—
dangpö chak nyi tukkar talmo jar
The first pair joined in front of his chest;
chak yé oma rinchen shel treng dzin
The lower right holding a precious crystal māla
chak yön pekar dab gyü yuwa dzin
And the left the stem of an eight-petalled white lotus.
shyal dzum chen dang shang kyi yib to shying
He is smiling, with bright eyes and a prominent nose;
utra changlo tönting gyendu khyil
His blue-black locks are braided and tied up.
chitsuk sangye nangwa tayé shyuk
At his crown Buddha Amitābha takes his seat.
rangnyi detar salwé tukka na
I visualise myself clearly in this way.
pema karpo dab druk gyepé ü
At my heart is an open, six-petalled white lotus.
yigé hrih tsen dru druk dab tengdu
At its centre stands the syllable Hrīḥ,
chirol yigé druk ma yé su khor
And around it, six syllables upon the six petals:
om mani pemé hung hri
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ
detar salwé ku lé ö tröpé
Light radiates from my body, which is visualized in this way,
nangwa tamché nangtong lha yi ku
And I perceive everything as appearance and emptiness conjoined,
pakpé gyalpo tukjé chenpor mik
The form of the deity—Great Compassionate One, sovereign of the noble.
ngak lé ö trö jungwé dra lasok
Light emanates from the mantra, and all sounds, including those of the elements,
drakpa tamché drak tong ngak kyi dra
Are heard as sound and emptiness, the resonance of mantra.
dren tok kyegak né sum tadral ngang
Freed from the limitations of arising, abiding and cessation of thought,
ma sam jömé tongpé ngang la shyak
I rest in a state of wisdom that is beyond description and imagination.
detar salwé rik ngak dru drukpo
With all this clearly visualized, I recite the six syllables
dra zur ma nyam yigé druk ma da
Of the vidyā-mantra continually and without omission.
om mani padmé hung hrih
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ
Practice this meditation and repeat the mantra continually. Periodically, you may wish to expand
the practice by adding offerings, praise and entrustment of activity. Dedicate the merit
towards the great awakening of all.
With this, The Wish-Fulfilling Jewel, A Daily Sādhana of the Noble Avalokiteśvara, is complete.
Samaya. Gya Gya Gya.

Tulku Rigzin Chenpo extracted this as terma from the western red copper treasure-chamber. Maṅgalaṃ.

| Translated by Sean Price and Adam Pearcey, 2020.

Source: blo gros mtha' yas. rin chen gter mdzod chen mo/. 70 vols. New Delhi: Shechen Publications,
2007–2008 (BDRC W1KG14). Vol. 22: 447–448

Version: 1.2-20220103